Vault Kubernetes KMS docs (#1602)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/vault/v1.21.x/content/docs/deploy/kubernetes/kms/security.mdx

---
page_title: Security model for Vault Kubernetes KMS plugin 
description: |-
 Learn about the Vault Kubernetes KMS plugin security model to identify potential security threats and follow our recommendations for using the plugin securely.
---

# Security model for the Vault Kubernetes KMS plugin

## Overview

This page explains the security model of the Vault Kubernetes KMS Plugin and the security controls available to end users. 
It describes the plugin's architecture, trust boundaries, threat model, and provides best practices for deploying and operating the 

> plugin securely in production Kubernetes environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn about the Vault Kubernetes KMS architecture, trust boundaries, and threat
model model, the available security controls, and best practices for deploying
and operating the  plugin securely in your production Kubernetes environments.
```
Style correction: avoid "this" as a pronoun.

Also, as rule, in the docs we don't introduce the document. We just say what
task, problem, or concept it addresses.

## Important Concepts

The Vault Kubernetes KMS Plugin enables envelope encryption of Kubernetes secrets (and other etcd-stored resources) using HashiCorp Vault's Transit secrets engine as the external Key Encryption Key (KEK) provider.

### Envelope Encryption

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The Vault Kubernetes KMS add-on uses the Transit secrets engine plugin as an
external key encryption key (KEK) provider to provide envelope encryption of
Kubernetes secrets and other etcd resources.

```
Paragraph from above. I'm really uncomfortable calling this a plugin if it's not *actually* a plugin. Going back to our previous discussions: if it's a plugin, the documentation belongs with the other plugins. If it's not a plugin we really shouldn't be calling it a plugin.

- The plugin is only called once at startup and when KEK rotation is detected

### DEK Seed

The Data Encryption Key seed is a cryptographic secret generated by the Kubernetes API server. 
The API server combines this seed with random data through HKDF to derive unique DEKs for each encryption operation. 
The seed is encrypted by the KMS plugin and stored alongside encrypted data in etcd. Our plugin does not store this data.

### Key Encryption Key (KEK)

The Key Encryption Key is managed by Vault Transit. It is used to encrypt and decrypt DEK seeds. 
The KEK never leaves Vault; all cryptographic operations involving the KEK are performed within Vault's Transit engine.

### Transit Secrets Engine

Vault's Transit secrets engine provides "encryption as a service"—cryptographic operations without exposing the underlying keys. The engine supports key rotation, convergent encryption, and multiple key types including AES-256-GCM96.

### Unix Domain Socket

The communication channel between the Kubernetes API server and the KMS plugin. Unix sockets provide process-to-process communication with kernel-enforced access controls based on filesystem permissions.

---

## Architecture

> ### High-Level Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐

Reviewer: We really should create a proper diagram for this. I know we're on a tight timeline so I'll make a note to update it after merge

│  │       etcd          │                                      │             │
│  │  (Encrypted Data)   │                                      │             │
│  └─────────────────────┘                                      │             │
│                                                               │             │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼─────────────┘
                                                                │
                                                               TLS
                                                                │
                                                                ▼
                                                    ┌────────────────────┐
                                                    │                    │
                                                    │  Vault Enterprise  │
                                                    │  Transit Engine    │
                                                    │                    │
                                                    └────────────────────┘
```

### Component Description

#### KMS Plugin (gRPC Server)

> The core component that implements the Kubernetes [KMS v2](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kms-provider/#implementing-a-kms-plugin) interface. It:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes plugin implements the 
[KMS v2](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kms-provider/#implementing-a-kms-plugin)
interface by:
```
Style correction: avoid implicit subjects for sentences

Vault Kubernetes KMS creates a Unix socket at a configurable path (default: `/tmp/vault-kube-kms.socket`) with 
permissions `0770` (owner and group read/write/execute). This restricts access to:
- The `vault-kube-kms` process (owner)
- Processes in the same group

#### Vault Client

A cached client that:
- Authenticates using AppRole (role ID + secret ID from filesystem)
- Automatically renews tokens before expiration
- Re-authenticates if tokens exceed max TTL

#### AppRole Authentication

Vault Kubernetes KMS uses Vault's AppRole auth method:
- **Role ID**: Non-sensitive identifier, can be configured via flag or environment variable
- **Secret ID**: Sensitive credential read from a filesystem path, rather than passed directly

### Security Controls

| Control | Implementation |
|---------|----------------|
| **Socket Permissions** | Unix socket created with umask `0007` restricting access to owner+group |
| **TLS to Vault** | TLS enabled by default; custom CA certificate supported; SNI configurable |
| **Authentication** | AppRole with secret ID from protected filesystem path |
| **Token Management** | Automatic renewal; re-authentication on token expiry |

> | **Non-root Container** | Runs as UID 65532 (nonroot) in container image; UBI image for OpenShift |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Non-root Container** | Runs as UID 65532 (nonroot) in a container or OpenShift UBI image |
```

---
page_title: Security model for Vault Kubernetes KMS 
description: |-
 Learn about the Vault Kubernetes KMS security model to identify potential security threats and follow our recommendations for using the process securely.
---

# Security model for Vault Kubernetes KMS

## Overview

This page explains the security model of Vault Kubernetes KMS and the security controls available to end users. 
It describes the architecture, trust boundaries, threat model, and provides best practices for deploying and operating the 
process securely in production Kubernetes environments.

## Key concepts

Vault Kubernetes KMS enables envelope encryption of Kubernetes secrets (and other etcd-stored resources) using HashiCorp Vault's 

> Transit secrets engine as the external Key Encryption Key (KEK) provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes KMS plugin uses Vault as an external key encryption key (KEK)
provider to securely encrypt Kubernetes secrets and other etcd-stored resources.
```

The seed is encrypted by Vault Kubernetes KMS and stored alongside encrypted data in etcd. Vault Kubernetes KMS does not store this data.

### Key Encryption Key (KEK)

Vault manages the KEK with the Transit plugin, which encrypts and decrypts the
DEK seeds. The KEK never leaves Vault and all cryptographic operations involving
the KEK happen within the Transit plugin.

### The Transit plugin

The Transit plugin is a secrets engine that provides encryption as a service
(EaaS) cryptographic operations without exposing the underlying keys. The engine
supports key rotation, convergent encryption, and multiple key types including
AES-256-GCM96.

### Unix Domain Socket

The communication channel between the Kubernetes API server and Vault Kubernetes KMS. 
Unix sockets provide process-to-process communication with kernel-enforced access controls based on filesystem permissions.

---

## Architecture

The Kubernetes API server and the KMS plugin use Unix sockets to provide
process-to-process communication with kernel-enforced access controls based on
filesystem permissions.

### High-Level Overview

```

> ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐

Reviewer: We really should create a proper diagram for this. I know we're on a tight timeline so I'll make a note to update it after merge.

Also, we should really have a text-version of the process flow described by the diagram. If you can provide a simple write-up (it can be separate from the PR), I'll make sure it gets added when we update the document.

│  │       etcd          │                                      │             │
│  │  (Encrypted Data)   │                                      │             │
│  └─────────────────────┘                                      │             │
│                                                               │             │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼─────────────┘
                                                                │
                                                               TLS
                                                                │
                                                                ▼
                                                    ┌────────────────────┐
                                                    │                    │
                                                    │  Vault Enterprise  │
                                                    │  Transit Engine    │
                                                    │                    │
                                                    └────────────────────┘
```

### Component Description

#### Vault Kubernetes KMS (gRPC Server)

> The core component that implements the Kubernetes [KMS v2](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kms-provider/#implementing-a-kms-plugin) interface. It:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The core component that implements the Kubernetes [KMS v2](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/kms-provider/#implementing-a-kms-plugin) interface.
```

- **Listens** on a Unix domain socket for gRPC requests from the API server
- **Authenticates** to Vault using AppRole authentication
- **Forwards** encrypt/decrypt operations to Vault Transit
- **Caches** the Vault client with automatic token renewal
- **Reports** health status and current KEK version to Kubernetes

#### Unix Domain Socket

Vault Kubernetes KMS creates a Unix socket at a configurable path (default: `/tmp/vault-kube-kms.socket`) with 
permissions `0770` (owner and group read/write/execute). This restricts access to:
- The `vault-kube-kms` process (owner)
- Processes in the same group

> #### Vault Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The Vault client
```

A cached client that:
- Authenticates using AppRole (role ID + secret ID from filesystem)
- Automatically renews tokens before expiration
- Re-authenticates if tokens exceed max TTL

> #### AppRole Authentication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### AppRole authentication
```

Vault Kubernetes KMS uses Vault's AppRole auth method:
- **Role ID**: Non-sensitive identifier, can be configured via flag or environment variable
- **Secret ID**: Sensitive credential read from a filesystem path, rather than passed directly

> ### Security Controls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Security controls
```

| Control | Implementation |
|---------|----------------|
| **Socket Permissions** | Unix socket created with umask `0007` restricting access to owner+group |
| **TLS to Vault** | TLS enabled by default; custom CA certificate supported; SNI configurable |
| **Authentication** | AppRole with secret ID from protected filesystem path |
| **Token Management** | Automatic renewal; re-authentication on token expiry |
| **Non-root Container** | Runs as UID 65532 (nonroot) in container image; UBI image for OpenShift |
| **Input Validation** | Strict validation of key IDs, configuration values, and Vault responses |
| **Enterprise Validation** | Verifies Vault Enterprise license (not Community Edition) |
| **Logging** | Structured JSON logging with configurable levels; sensitive data redacted |
| **Metrics** | Prometheus endpoint with gRPC latency histograms |

---

## Threat Model

The design for Vault Kubernetes KMS addresses the following categories of threats:

| Threat | Description | Key mitigations |
|--------|-------------|------------------|

> | **Unauthorized socket access** | A process on the control plane node attempting to communicate with Vault Kubernetes KMS without authorization. | Restricted socket permissions, non-root execution, and limited node access. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Unauthorized socket access** | A control plane node process communicates with Vault Kubernetes KMS without authorization. | Restricted socket permissions, non-root execution, and limited node access. |
```

| **Data replay or rollback** | An attacker substitutes older encrypted data. | Key version tracking allows Kubernetes to detect stale encryption and trigger re-encryption. |
| **Vault unavailability** | Vault becoming unavailable | Kubernetes KMS v2 means the API server caches the DEK seed locally, reducing dependency on Vault during normal operation. |
| **Information leakage** | Sensitive data appearing in logs or metrics. | Structured logging with sensitive value redaction. Metrics expose only latency and counters. |
| **Resource exhaustion** | Excessive requests overwhelm Vault Kubernetes KMS. | Client-side caching of connection-handling, and configurable request timeouts. |

---

## Threat Model Exclusions

Vault Kubernetes KMS does not protect against threats that require infrastructure-level controls.
Kubernetes cluster administrators must ensure that access to their control plane nodes are properly secured, 
and Vault cluster administrators must ensure that Vault cluster access is protected with appropriate policy.

---

## Recommendations For Secure Use

> ### Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deployment recommendations
```

1. **Deploy as a Static Pod**: Run Vault Kubernetes KMS as a static Pod on each control plane node.

2. **Use Minimal Container Image**: Deploy using the distroless or UBI-based images that contain only the process binary and necessary certificates.

3. **Restrict Node Access**: Limit SSH and console access to control plane nodes to authorized administrators only.

4. **Network Policies**: Apply Kubernetes network policies to restrict the `vault-kube-kms` process's egress to only the Vault endpoints.

> ### Vault Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Vault configuration recommendations
```

1. **Use Minimum Required Policy**: Grant only the permissions required:
   ```hcl
   path "transit/encrypt/kms-key" {
     capabilities = ["create", "update"]
   }
   path "transit/decrypt/kms-key" {
     capabilities = ["create", "update"]
   }
   path "transit/keys/kms-key" {
     capabilities = ["read"]
   }
   path "sys/license/status" {
     capabilities = ["read"]
   }
   ```

> 2. **Use AES-256-GCM96**: Configure the Transit key with the `aes256-gcm96` type for authenticated encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Use AES-256-GCM96 encryption**. Configure your Transit key with the
   `aes256-gcm96` type for authenticated encryption.
```

> 3. **Enable Key Versioning**: Do not disable key versioning; it is required for proper key rotation support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Enable key versioning**. You must enable key versioning for proper key
   rotation support.
```

| **Data replay or rollback** | An attacker substitutes older encrypted data. | Key version tracking lets Kubernetes detect stale encryption and trigger re-encryption. |
| **Vault unavailability** | Vault becomes unavailable | Kubernetes KMS v2 means the API server caches the DEK seed locally, reducing dependency on Vault during normal operation. |
| **Information leakage** | Sensitive data appears in logs or metrics. | Structured logging with sensitive value redaction. Metrics expose only latency and counters. |
| **Resource exhaustion** | Excessive requests overwhelm Vault Kubernetes KMS. | Client-side caching of connection-handling, and configurable request timeouts. |

## Threat model exclusions

Vault Kubernetes KMS does not protect against threats that require infrastructure-level controls.

- **Kubernetes cluster administrators** must properly secure access to their control
  plane nodes.
- **Vault cluster administrators** must protect Vault cluster access with
  appropriate policies.

## Best practices for secure use

### Deployment recommendations

1. **Deploy as a Static Pod**. Run Vault Kubernetes KMS as a static Pod on each
   control plane node.

> 2. **Use Minimal Container Image**: Deploy using the distroless or UBI-based images that contain only the process binary and necessary certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Use a minimal container image**. Deploy using distro-less or UBI-based
   images that contain only the process binary and necessary certificates.
```

| **Data replay or rollback** | An attacker substitutes older encrypted data. | Key version tracking lets Kubernetes detect stale encryption and trigger re-encryption. |
| **Vault unavailability** | Vault becomes unavailable | Kubernetes KMS v2 means the API server caches the DEK seed locally, reducing dependency on Vault during normal operation. |
| **Information leakage** | Sensitive data appears in logs or metrics. | Structured logging with sensitive value redaction. Metrics expose only latency and counters. |
| **Resource exhaustion** | Excessive requests overwhelm Vault Kubernetes KMS. | Client-side caching of connection-handling, and configurable request timeouts. |

---

## Threat model exclusions

Vault Kubernetes KMS does not protect against threats that require infrastructure-level controls.

- **Kubernetes cluster administrators** must properly secure access to their control
  plane nodes.
- **Vault cluster administrators** must protect Vault cluster access with
  appropriate policies.

## Best practices for secure use

### Deployment recommendations

1. **Deploy as a Static Pod**: Run Vault Kubernetes KMS as a static Pod on each control plane node.

> 2. **Use Minimal Container Image**: Deploy using the distroless or UBI-based images that contain only the process binary and necessary certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Use a minimal container image**. Deploy using distro-less or UBI-based
   images that only contain the process binary and necessary certificates.
```

1. **Restrict node access**. Limit SSH and console access to your control plane
   nodes to authorized administrators only.

1. **Enforce network policies**. Apply Kubernetes network policies to restrict
   the `vault-kube-kms` process so it can only access Vault endpoints.

### Vault configuration recommendations

1. **Use the minimum required policy**. Grant the smallest set of required

>    permissions required to the Transit plugin. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Use the minimum required policy**. Grant the smallest set of
   permissions required to the Transit plugin. For example:
```

   ```hcl
   path "transit/encrypt/kms-key" {
     capabilities = ["create", "update"]
   }
   path "transit/decrypt/kms-key" {
     capabilities = ["create", "update"]
   }
   path "transit/keys/kms-key" {
     capabilities = ["read"]
   }
   path "sys/license/status" {
     capabilities = ["read"]
   }
   ```

1. **Use AES-256-GCM96 encryption**. Configure your Transit key with the
   `aes256-gcm96` type for authenticated encryption.

1. **Enable key versioning**. You must enable key versioning for proper key
   rotation support.

1. **Rotate your key encyption keys regularly**. Rotate the Transit key at least
   every 90 days per Kubernetes project recommendations.

1. **Use Vault namespaces**. In multi-tenant environments, we recommend
   isolating the KMS Transit key in a dedicated Vault namespace.

### AppRole authentication recommendations

> 1. **Protect Secret ID**: Mount the AppRole Secret ID as a file with restricted permissions (mode 0400).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Protect the secret ID**. Mount the AppRole secret ID as a file with
   restricted permissions (mode `0400`).
```

> 2. **Use Short Token TTLs**: Configure AppRole with short token TTLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Use short token TTLs**. Configure the AppRole plugin with the minimum
   viable time for token TTLs.
```

3. **Rotate Secret IDs**: Periodically rotate AppRole secret IDs and update the mounted secret.

> ### TLS Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TLS recommendations
```

1. **Always Use TLS**: Never disable TLS verification (`--tls-skip-verify`) in production.

> 2. **Provide CA Certificate**: If not using the CA in the system trust store, provide the CA certificate for Vault via `--tls-ca-file`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Provide a CA certificate**. If you do not store your CA certificate in the
   system trust store, provide the CA certificate to Vault on startup with the
  `--tls-ca-file` flag.
```

Vault Kubernetes KMS uses AppRole authentication through the Vault AppRole
plugin:

- **The role ID** is a non-sensitive identifier that you can configure with a
  flag or environment variable.
- **The secret ID** is a sensitive credential read by the Kubernetes plugin from
  a filesystem path.

## Security controls

| Control | Implementation |
|---------|----------------|
| **Socket Permissions** | Unix socket created with umask `0007` restricting access to owner+group |
| **TLS to Vault** | TLS enabled by default with custom CA certificate support and configurable SNI  |
| **Authentication** | AppRole with secret ID from protected filesystem path |
| **Token Management** | Automatic renewal with re-authentication on token expiry |
| **Non-root Container** | Runs as UID 65532 (nonroot) in a container or OpenShift UBI image |
| **Input Validation** | Strict validation of key IDs, configuration values, and Vault responses |
| **Enterprise Validation** | Verifies Vault Enterprise license (not Community Edition) |
| **Logging** | Structured JSON logging with configurable levels and sensitive data redacted |
| **Metrics** | Prometheus endpoint with gRPC latency histograms |

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Vault configuration recommendations

1. **Use the minimum required policy**. Grant the smallest set of
   permissions required to the Transit plugin. For example:
   ```hcl
   path "transit/encrypt/kms-key" {
     capabilities = ["create", "update"]
   }
   path "transit/decrypt/kms-key" {
     capabilities = ["create", "update"]
   }
   path "transit/keys/kms-key" {
     capabilities = ["read"]
   }
   path "sys/license/status" {
     capabilities = ["read"]
   }
   ```

1. **Use AES-256-GCM96 encryption**. Configure your Transit key with the
   `aes256-gcm96` type for authenticated encryption.

1. **Enable key versioning**. You must enable key versioning for proper key
   rotation support.

1. **Rotate your key encyption keys regularly**. Rotate the Transit key at least
   every 90 days per Kubernetes project recommendations.

1. **Use Vault namespaces**. In multi-tenant environments, we recommend
   isolating the KMS Transit key in a dedicated Vault namespace.

### AppRole authentication recommendations

1. **Protect your secret ID**. Mount the AppRole secret ID as a file with
   restricted permissions (mode `0400`).

> 2. **Use Short Token TTLs**: Configure AppRole with short token TTLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Use short token TTLs**. Configure the AppRole plugin with the minimum
   viable time for token TTLs.
```

│  ┌─────────────────────┐                                      │             │
│  │       etcd          │                                      │             │
│  │  (Encrypted Data)   │                                      │             │
│  └─────────────────────┘                                      │             │
│                                                               │             │
└───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┼─────────────┘
                                                                │
                                                               TLS
                                                                │
                                                                ▼
                                                    ┌────────────────────┐
                                                    │                    │
                                                    │  Vault Enterprise  │
                                                    │  Transit Engine    │
                                                    │                    │
                                                    └────────────────────┘
```

> ### Component Description

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
The previous header already makes it clear we're providing component descriptions, so we don't really need this header

The Kubernetes KMS v2 protocol defines the interface between a Kubernetes API
server and an external key management service like Vault. Unlike KMS v1, which
generated a new DEK for every encryption operation, KMS v2 uses a DEK seed
approach.

When you use the Kubernetes KMS plugin with Vault:

1. The Kubernetes API server generates a single DEK seed at startup.
1. The Kubernetes KMS plugin requests an external KEK from the Vault Transit plugin.
1. The Kubernetes KMS plugin encrypts the seed using the external KEK.
1. The Kubernetes API server derives single-use DEKs from the seed using an
   HMAC-based key derivation function (HKDF).

The Kubernetes API server only calls the KMS plugin during startup and when
it determines that the KEK was rotated in the Transit plugin.

### DEK seeds and KEK management

The Data Encryption Key seed is a cryptographic secret generated by the Kubernetes API server. 
The API server combines this seed with random data through HKDF to derive unique DEKs for each encryption operation. 
The seed is encrypted by Vault Kubernetes KMS and stored alongside encrypted data in etcd. Vault Kubernetes KMS does not store this data.

> ### Key Encryption Key (KEK)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

   viable time for token TTLs.

1. **Rotate your secret IDs**. Periodically rotate the AppRole secret IDs and
   update the mounted secret.

### TLS Configuration

1. **Always Use TLS**. Never start a product Vault server with the skip TLS
   verification flag (`--tls-skip-verify`).

1. **Provide your CA certificates**. If you do not provide the CA certificate in
   the system trust store, you provide the CA certificate to Vault with the
  `--tls-ca-file` flag.

1. **Configure SNI with load balancers**. If you deploy Vault behind a load
   balancer with a different hostname, you must provide the correct hostname at
   startup with the `--tls-sni` flag.

### Monitoring and Auditing

1. **Enable Vault Audit Logging**: Enable audit logging in Vault to record all Transit operations.

2. **Monitor Metrics**: Scrape the Prometheus `/metrics` endpoint for:
   - `rpc.server.call.duration` histograms (ensure latency stays within KMS v2 requirements)
   - Error rates on Status/Encrypt/Decrypt operations

3. **Alert on Failures**: Configure alerts for:
   - `vault-kube-kms` process health check failures
   - Authentication failures to Vault

> 4. **Review Logs**: Regularly review `vault-kube-kms` process logs for authentication failures or unexpected errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Regularly review process logs**. Review the `vault-kube-kms` process logs
   regularly for authentication failures or unexpected errors.
```

     requirements.
   - Error rates on all status, encrypt, and decrypt operations to ensure proper
     communication between Vault and the KMS plugin.

1. **Configure alerts on failures**. To catch potential problems early, configure
   alerts for:

   - `vault-kube-kms` process health check failures.
   - Authentication failures to Vault.

1. **Regularly review process logs**. Review the `vault-kube-kms` process logs
   regularly for authentication failures or unexpected errors.

### Disaster recovery recommendations

1. **Backup the Transit key**. Ensure you have a way to recover the Transit key.
   If you have appropriate safeguards for the externalized data, we recommend
   using the built-in key export functionality of the Transit plugin.

1. **Document your recovery procedures**. Always document your recovery
   processes to ensure people can restore Kubernetes KMS or Vault if they become
   unavailable.

1. **Test your recovery process**. Periodically test your documented recovery
   procedures to ensure they remain accurate to your API server and Vault
   Kubernetes KMS integration over time.

### Upgrade Path

> 1. **Test Upgrades in Non-Production**: Test Vault Kubernetes KMS upgrades in a non-production cluster first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Test upgrades in non-production**. Always test Vault Kubernetes KMS
   upgrades in a non-production cluster first.
```

The Kubernetes API server only calls the KMS plugin during startup and when
it determines that the KEK was rotated in the Transit plugin.

### DEK seeds and KEK management

The Kubernetes API server generates the DEK seed as a cryptographic secret then
uses HKDF to combine the seed with random data and derive unique DEKs for each
encryption operation.

The Kubernetes KMS plugin encrypts the seed and stores it alongside the
encrypted data in etcd. Vault does not store the data or the seed.

Vault manages the KEK with the Transit plugin, which encrypts and decrypts the
DEK seeds. The KEK never leaves Vault and all cryptographic operations involving
the KEK happen within the Transit plugin.

### The Transit plugin

The Transit plugin is a secrets engine that provides encryption as a service
(EaaS) cryptographic operations without exposing the underlying keys. The engine
supports key rotation, convergent encryption, and multiple key types including
AES-256-GCM96.

## Process flow and component overview

The Kubernetes API server and the KMS plugin use Unix sockets to provide
process-to-process communication with kernel-enforced access controls based on
filesystem permissions.

```

> ┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐

Reviewer: We really should create a proper diagram for this. I know we're on a tight timeline so I'll make a note to update it next week.

Also, we should really have a text-version of the process flow described by the diagram. If you can provide a simple write-up (it can be separate from the PR), I'll make sure it gets added when we update the document.
